>> Speaker 1: If we need to
access a selector from an effect,
what is the best way to ensure we have
the last state of the store there?
>> Lukas: With the latest.
>> Lukas: And so you can access and
so I really need to do this.
But in your effect, you can say,
take from the stored directly and
you can say, give me this, give me,
I believe it's with latest.
So I would have to look that up but
I've had to do that once or twice.
And because it's an observable stream,
then it's the width latest operator,
if I'm not mistaken.
>> Speaker 1: I know that cache could be
implemented with interceptors but here,
the store is kind of a cache, am I right?
>> Lukas: Yes.
And so, one, on some level,
cache is already being
implemented on at a selector level.
But for instance, if you're like,
go fetch this thing but
if it already exist then
don't go fetch the thing.
So this would be like, I'm going to login
and I'm going to get my user profile and
I don't need to do it again.
Because I have it once and so
if that exists, then go ahead and do that.
So part of the problem is one of the
reasons why a lot of times you have to go
and call again and again because your
state, my user profiles over here but
I need it over here.
And so now by saying,
I've done this once, it's in the store,
I don't need to go get it again.
And so typically I find by
having a single source of truth,
that really cuts down all the need for
cache because if it exists, then it would
just select it and you would get it.
But what you could do is for
instance, there is some sequence or
maybe it doesn't exist is that you
could say, hey, dispatch this event.
If there's nothing in the store,
go make the call and then do it.
If not, just pass it through.
So you could definitely implement some
caching strategy and some logic at,
I would say, probably the effect level
is probably where I would do that.
>> Lukas: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: While we're
talking about effects,
>> Speaker 3: I guess the magic with
the effects is that fetch and
pessimistic update and
all the data persistence
stuff returns an observable.
>> Lukas: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: I don't get what
an observable is because it implements
a publication subscription module or
a pattern.
>> Lukas: One, I love observables,
and I think to really do it justice,
we probably would need to well it
is a workshop in Front End Masters.
Jafar Usein is amazing,
probably one of my heroes,
he does a really good job
of talking about that.
But to simplify, this is the 60-second
version of this, is that
an observable is really a combination
of the iterator pattern and
the observer pattern because
their interface is pretty close.
So now within an application,
is that unique data, and
so an observable will actually
provide that data to you and
it will continue to provide
data as it becomes available.
So unlike a promise which is
a single-fire and you're done,
it'll only ever resolve once, the
observable will continue to produce data
until the end of time
hypothetically via a NXT.
So if you think about an iterator,
it's like NXT, NXT, NXT, NXT, NXT, so
it provides the data.
Now the question is, well,
what happens if that data is
available at some indeterminate time?
So using the observer pattern,
you're able to say,
hey, I'm going to subscribe
to this observable string.
And whenever this data is available,
go ahead and push it to me.
So you have essentially
your initial output.
So we think of data or
programming lot of times as input, output,
I'm going to give you something,
you're going to give me something back.
With observables, you flip that around and
data is coming, there is data streaming,
where there's some event that's
producing data that you consume.
So dom events are actually
a really good way to start
to learn observables cuz
they happen all the time.
Move your mouse over the browser,
and whether you know it or not,
there's dom events firing.
So I'm capturing the stream, so your
initial output and then your final input.
And so I want to take this and
I wanna put it over here.
So we'll take this,
we'll move it over here.
So now you have this
encapsulated stream that one
keeps to manage the state
within the stream.
So now you're getting this microcosm but
then you can start to stack these
operators within the stream and
transform your data as you go along.
You even can pose streams together, so
now with an effect being
this asynchronous thing,
is it captures an initial event which is,
hey, this action object was fired.
You're allowed to do any number
of asynchronous things and
at the end of it you're basically
kicking out a new action object.
And the point is is that any time that
action becomes available it'll retrigger.
And then you have all of
the operators in between.
And so I don't think that that's caught on
on React, as far as I know, maybe it has.
>> Speaker 3: Sounds roughly similar to
Reduct Saga, which uses ES6 generators.
You can keep asking it for
a value, and it will-
>> Lukas: Well so
the thing is you never even
have to ask for the value,
it's going to push it to you cuz
you're basically observing it.
And that's where I think, so
I've done a redox implementation
in 1.x, and we had to use normal eventing.
To where the differences with this, or
at least it was there some kind of
event thing baked on the back end.
This is because an observable stream
you're able to just subscribe to it, and
any time data comes then
it just pushes it to you.
>> Speaker 3: Pushes it to
the component that the effect is.
>> Lukas: Or anything that's
subscribed to it, it pushes the so
you'll never have to pull and
it will push but unlike a promise,
it will push in a number of values.
>> Speaker 3: And
then Angular, like the decision
to re-render a component takes
that effect into account.
So if you'd date it in that
[INAUDIBLE] changes then
Angular will rerender your code.
>> Lukas: Right, but what's interesting
is you can defer change
detection to an observable.
So you can say, for this component tree,
I wanna turn off change detection entirely
because anything that's changed
is in the observable strain.
And then what happens once at the end,
once it fires,
then you fire just a change detection,
so this very, very fast.
When you're saying, hey Angular,
you don't have to do change detection.
Which Angular 2 and above, it's gotten
a lot faster and it does a very good job.
But you know what's faster
than doing change detection?
Not doing it at all.
It's just pushing the change detection.
>> Speaker 3: Sure, so that's another win
for your single source of truth is you
only have one place to look to
determine if you need to re-render?
>> Lukas: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Cool.
>> Speaker 4: So we don't need to test
a component if we follow this pattern,
like presentation component?
>> Lukas: That sounded almost like
a statement and not a question,
but you still need to test the component,
but if we look at this,
there's not a lot of logic here.
I think if we have more time,
I would actually,
there's ways to abstract this out,
but when it's all said and done.
So let's pretend this is not here.
And let's look at this
component in particular.
>> Lukas: Actually, this would actually
get put in the facade as well.
>> Lukas: But in this component,
show me where the logic is,
any kind of logic that we have.
So no, no, no, no,
there is a piece of logic?
No, and so the surface area to test
this component is very, very small.
But typically when you focus on
testing something, you want to test
that unit and nothing outside of it.
So I could test this component
in the sense of when I create a project or
I called this project.
I'm going to spy on the facade and
make sure that createProject
was fired with this project.
And so this is where spies
come in handy because for
something that is basically delegating
out, there is no logic necessary to test.
But you can say like,
when I call this, it's called this, so
it's ensuring that it's delegating
properly with the right information.
Now from here what I would do is I would
pass in a project without an ID and
I would say, when I called
state project without an ID I
want to make sure that
createProject was called.
So I would spy on createProject,
and then with this project.
And also I could say, also I wanna make
sure that update project was not called.
And so at the component level,
the surface area for
testing at a unit level is very small.
Now end-to-end testing,
this is a lot easier to do now,
but I would recommend having some
broad level end-to-end test.
So typically I think of a user story, so
when you're working with business analysts
and they're saying,
this should do this and this and this.
Well, I think Protractor's okay, but
I think Cypress is the heat,
it is incredibly easy to set up.
And so when you set up everything correct,
especially using a page-object pattern.
So the selector's getting stuff off the
page is, you've already implemented it and
you can reuse it.
Is that you can create, for instance,
Cypress end-to-end test I believe is fast,
is you could almost write a unit test for
it.
And so I think you should have testing but
here I probably would not be so
motivated to do unit testing on it,
maybe some very cursory things.
But where I would be interested and
testing is when we go down to for
instance, the reducer or
the selector, so
I would test reducers and selectors.
Now those are super easy
because we know that
because it has referential transparency.
When I pass in state and an action object,
I'm going to get something else,
you're going to get
something predictable out.
So this a lot of, when I call this,
this is the return, so
you have a clear contract and
it's deterministic.
The same thing with your
selectors is that you can say,
when I pass this in,
this is what I expect out.
And really where it gets tricky, I would
say, probably the hardest part when you're
testing in GRX is back [INAUDIBLE].
Because now you're dealing with
essentially, streams, marbles and
different things like that.
It was a really good question.
So the answer is, yes but focus on the
things that matter in your business logic,
that's well suited, there's a clear
units of code, and those are testable.
So I think even you were talking
about 100% code coverage.
I would say, that's a really nice idea but
you're going to end up writing
a lot of low quality tests.
So focus on where there's actually
units of logic and then test those.
Starting with the most critical things and
then move backwards.
I would rather have a really
good end-to-end test versus
40 marginal unit test but
I've got a 97% co-coverage or
something like that, so
it's always quality over quantity.
>> Speaker 4: What is the purpose of
the index.ts in state module folder?
It contains all kinds of constants.
Is it a helper?
>> Lukas: So
what you're doing in the barrel roll here,
so this top level, not this one, but
this one right here.
So this is exposing your
application state as a whole.
So all of your individual reducers
are now going to be combined
into a single action reducer map.
And so
your entire shape of your application
needs to be combined somewhere.
So the most logical place is
that if are within your state
management folder here,
I'll just zoom in on this.
Typically, and there's some different
opinions on this, I like to just have
a state folder and then I put
the features in that I'm managing.
They seem to be combined somewhere.
So I believe the best way to
do that is in an index.ts
file that sits right above those.
And so by combining
the reducers in a single place,
we can then export that and
make that available.
Now the selectors provide an interface
to your application state as a whole.
And so for me, philosophically,
when you are defining the shape
of your entire application state and
the way in which you communicate with it.
It makes sense to me to have that
in a single top level index.ts.
Where it becomes I think really helpful
is when you're doing computed selectors
where you need to combine selectors
that involve related entities.
And so now if I were to put this in the
customers reducer, so now the customers
reducer needs to know about
the project's reducer and vice versa.
And so now by having this up is that
I'm able to compose these together
at a top level.
And so some of these, I would say, are
fairly simplistic, but you can definitely,
in a non trivial application, start to
create some very sophisticated selectors.
And that I think needs to
happen in a single place and so
this is essentially, index.ts,
is the public API for
your store, and that's why I do that.
>> [APPLAUSE]